## Goals

- [x] Refactor the drop lock
- [ ] Update the INF file to match the NdisProt example

During drop lock refactoring, `object::drop_context_space` was made to no longer require a mut ref. This is fine as `DropLock::acquire_exclusive` ensures that only one accessor has exclusive access to the context space.

Q: Is this needed if we handle object ref counting properly?
> A: Scenario that this was originally envisioned to handle was in the situation of trying to access the context space of a parent while that context space is being initialized (e.g. since a device can get a handle to the driver and we can create devices during driver context space initialization, this means that we can technically access the uninitialized context space without initialization tracking).
> 
> However, we don't know if driver unload gets called before all of the existing object references can get dropped?
> 
> Could make a test driver to test if that's the case.
## What are the next steps?

- [ ] Update note in `once-arc` on why it's Acquire/Release ordering
    is because it needs the latest recent `Arc` otherwise we might be accessing an uninitialized `Arc`  
- [ ] Remove the filler line as clippy has a config for searching more upwards (`accept-comment-above-statement`)
      requires a toolchain bump

Could be to get binding and unbinding working?
Not exactly sure what that entails?

Wondering what the [`notifyob`](https://github.com/microsoft/Windows-driver-samples/tree/d9acf794c92ba2fb0525f6c794ef394709035ac3/network/ndis/ndisprot_kmdf/notifyob) directory is for?
[`prottest.c`](https://github.com/microsoft/Windows-driver-samples/blob/d9acf794c92ba2fb0525f6c794ef394709035ac3/network/ndis/ndisprot/6x/test/prottest.c) is something that we could easily port over,
and also allows for easily building a test harness?